---
title: 'Meaningful Learning'
date: 2020-08-24
permalink: /posts/2020/08/post-1
tags:
  - meaningful learning
  - instruction
  - CALL
---

Meaningful Learning
======
In this post I reflect on the question of why something is worth learning and what renders learning meaningful, deriving both from the theoretical framework present in educational technology literature and from my own personal experiences as a pre-service teacher of Foreign Language Education. Howland et al. (2013) assert in their introductory chapter that students only experience meaningful learning when presented with a task which has the following five characteristics: active, constructive, intentional, authentic, and cooperative. What I have found to be lucrative in this work is that the authors use the analogy of teacher-centered learning and contrast it with technology incorporated classes in which students actively engage in meaningful, authentic, and collaborative tasks that foster critical thinking for problem-solving rather than the rote memorization in the traditional class settings. Indeed, learning with but not from technology is essential in the making of a meaningful learning environment. As teachers with the latter mentality first attempted at using computers for the sole purpose of drill and practice few decades ago from now, we can see why this approach has failed and what we can do to benefit from computers most effectively.

Besides its enormous impact on individuals with disability (Keengwe et al., 2008), meaningful learning supported with technology aims to teach students how to both work in a group and take autonomous decisions through the use of multimedia. Nonetheless, it is still important to note that technology does not and should not replace quality instruction (Anderson & Becker, 2001). It is only there to assist instruction. Another line of research on the role of meaningful learning in teaching English also suggests, for instance, that integration of technology into the curriculum design increases intercultural communication and cooperation in the classroom and students get a chance to develop their language skills through meaningful tasks (Chan & Yang, 2014). After having read on meaningful learning and having followed the class discussion, I was particularly surprised to learn that technology can be utilized in such comprehensible and innumerous ways beyond what we may initially think: one may teach coding using Scratch in response to simulate real-world tasks and enhance critical thinking, or use external websites such as Geogebra to teach mathematics. Blended learning, best illustrated by the increasing number of flipped classrooms, is certainly a great way to incorporate all these into the curriculum so as to serve our unique educational purposes and the needs of our students (see differentiated instruction).

My personal experience with learning had its ups and downs, for sure. When I look back at my previous attempts at learning, I can pin down three different reasons why I might choose to learn something: it could either be that I intentionally wanted a personal (pragmatic) gain out of it, or take on a course to socialize and improve my professional network. Alternatively, I might want to learn how to play the guitar out of the blue to actualize myself or because I am genuinely interested in learning that content. I have discovered so far that situations where I felt that I fully learned something are those which made me engage in meaningful tasks and allowed me to experience all these five components. To give an example, I started taking on Turkish Sign Language (TID) purely out of curiosity and interest for that particular language, almost one and a half year ago. At that time, I was also enrolled in a methodology course in applied linguistics. I was required to conduct a research and write a final paper in the upcoming months. Then, I decided to incorporate my knowledge of TID to further enhance my learning process so not only was I constructive and reflective on my learning but also, I started to manipulate objects and observe results as part of research project. I was also working in a group (hence collaborative) for it, and we were conducting an experiment with real subjects and coding sign language data afterward. It was as authentic as It could have gotten. What happened after having engaged in a truly meaningful learning process? Well, I submitted my work to a student linguistics conference and got accepted. A professor saw my research and took me on his funded research projects and let me lead my own research in his lab with this exact experimental design. And now, after almost two years, I am about to submit a paper which I first-authored to a SSCI journal, which I think best exemplifies how successful my learning had been! Was it worth learning then? Of course. I am where I am today because of that choice.

References
======
Anderson, R. E., & Becker, H. J. (2001). School Investments in Instructional Technology.

Chen, J. J., & Yang, S. C. (2014). Fostering Foreign Language Learning Through Technology-Enhanced Intercultural Projects. Language Learning, 19.

Howland, J. L., Jonassen, D. H., & Marra, R. M. (2013). Meaningful Learning with Technology. Pearson Education.

Keengwe, J., Onchwari, G., & Wachira, P. (2008). The Use of Computer Tools to Support Meaningful Learning. AACE Journal, 16(1), 77-92.
