---
title: 'Reflection on Creativity'
date: 2020-09-02
permalink: /posts/2020/09/post-3
tags:
  - creativity
  - instruction
  - CALL
---

Reflection on Creativity
======
Creativity is an indispensable part of our education and that is why we as teachers should encourage innovative ruminifications by learners. In this reflection I am going to share my own personal perspective on how creative thinking might embellish a typical English as a Foregin Language (EFL) classroom. The first section of this paper addresses the article entitled "Grow Creativity!" by Candace Hackett Shively (2011) and aims to convey some ideas about the types of activities and tools out there to incorporate the FFOE model into our lessons. In the second section of my reflection, I choose two lesson plans on the use of creativity and evaluate them accordingly.

As a pre-service teacher of English, I would like to start this paragraph by first explaining what Task-based Language Teaching (TBLT) is and how it contributes to this model. For students to engage in meaningful learning, they should be presented with a task wherein they are given the opportunity to engage with authentic real-life discourse materials and they choose from a series of activities by collaborating together as a team to come up with an original final product. It is therefore of great importance to make our lessons available to every student in the classroom by differentiating our instruction and giving them a variety of alternatives to choose from for their learning. The Multiple Intelligences Theory (MIT) is one of the few ways we can actually achieve this (Gardner, 1999). When supported with educational technology and tools that boost creative thinking, this theory makes it possible to make our content presentation varied and engaging to our students from diverse cultural backgrounds and intelligence types. As a result, foreign language education is quite welcoming to such models and ideas. When accompanied by the skillful utilization of the Content-based Instruction (CBI), the curriculum can also be varied. Because it can be versatile in terms of the content chosen by the teacher, it is possible to introduce topics from different disciplines such as biology, geography, or psychology that actually ignite creative and innovative ideas. On this ground, "Grow Creativity!" outlines the basic principles of the FFOE model first proposed by Guilford a few decades ago. My take-away from this article is that there are multiple ways to strengthen creativity in the classroom. Practicing fluency is one of the ways the language teachers can have their learners engage in brainstorming and activate their prior knowledge or schemata on the topic. To give a brief example, a lesson that aims to develop reading skills among EFL learners, typically starts with a pre-reading phase where the teacher introduces the text, its title, and related pictures so that students can picture and in fact guess what they will read about. Similarly, when learning the language structure and vocabulary necessary for the interaction at a market, the teacher can begin the lesson by asking the learners to imagine such a scenario. Fluency and flexibility are also eminent during the task-cycle. To find a creative solution to the task, students are often required to brainstorm novel and innovative ideas by interacting with one another. What we should consider, however, is that all ideas should be welcomed and not dismissed. When necessary, students should be able to synthesize contrasting ideas and think outside the box to find a good solution to have an original product. Elaboration, on the other hand, is a great strategy for high achieving students especially in pedagogical tasks that require a high-level cognitive thinking and use of advanced language structure. It consequently encourages peer collaboration and teaching in groups.

It is possible to use a variety of technological tools to apply this model in your EFL classes. Especially with the lower age groups, Scratch is a great tool for children to learn language in a fun and interactive way. Not only does it support originality and fluency but it also enhances attention to detail and analytic thinking. Teaching how to code should be supplemental to learning a language as they are both made up of abstract symbols and ideas. To better grasp the dynamics of the language, students can use this tool to engage in project-based learning and perhaps design their own stories and games using English. For students who are "visual smart," the teacher can propose several alternative tools to Scratch, like Vyond, Animoto, Plotagon, or Glonk where there is no need for programming skills as they come with a very simple and intuitive interface and make room for creativity. For peer discussion in the target language and brainstorming, tools, such as Wordle, Padlet, and the interactive slide presentation tool Nearpod are great in the sense that they nourish fluency and flexibility with many different ideas and proposals coming from students either anonymously in a virtual classroom or in the form of face-to-face communication. I have recently read a case study on the role of digital storytelling on the development of language skills and recall that using a blog in such classes really helps. Writing an entry in a blog to reflect on a lesson or just or creating a story really encourages students to participate more. This way we offer them plenty of ways to demonstrate their creativity on their blogs and also support their writing skills. Google Sites, Weebly, or Wordpress are only the few of many tools out there to create and design a personal website. Before I move on to my evaluation of two lesson activities that focus on creativity, I would like to end this section by highlighting the importance of the FFOE model. Without it, our learners would be "schooled" out of creativity and as digital immigrant teachers of the new generation, we are entitled to pay attention to these standards in our lessons. I think there is no age limit for creativity. Starting from preschool education we should immediately include creative tasks for our learners before it is too late for them. Of course, these might also come with few challenges in that some students may not find themselves innovative whatsoever, however, as teachers, we need to differentiate our instruction and have alternatives in hand for those students with special needs.

Lesson Evaluation
---------------
In this section of my reflection, I evaluate two different lesson plans or activities, one specifically designed to address ISTE standards by Canyons District for ELA first grade students, and another one prepared by the British Council for EFL virtual classrooms for teachers affected by COVID-19. The first activity comes from a unit which revolves around the theme of Animals, Tame, and Wild and it focuses on the first and second ISTE standards; that is, the main aim of the activity here is to equip learners with necessary knowledge and opportunities where they can showcase creative thinking and come up with original as well as innovative products using technology. Similarly, this activity is directed at the use of digital media to foster communication and collaborative work among students. Here, the objectives of the teacher is that at the end of the lesson students will be able to talk about their rhetorical knowledge and the discourse structure of a narrative text and use appropriate grammar structures when writing or speaking. Another objective is to get students recognize and apply "grade level phonics to 1-2 syllable words" by being able to isolate, blend, and segment them. The recommended technological tools for such a lesson are listed in the article: Comic Life 3 is a downloadable application where students can create comics easily and engage in digital media. This has the potential to reinforce what they have learned in the lesson. Another possible tool is Super Why! Power to Read, which is an educational game that assumes the aim of helping children learn to read and have them practice phonics with a really fun interface and design and most importantly it is age appropriate. Another feature is that learners can have a more enhanced sticker book experience, animate characters and read classic children's stories with engaging visual content. Additionally, other in-class activities include interactive games and instructional slides in the SWF format which I assume to be prepared by the district. As this example is not a fully developed lesson plan and lacks detailed instructions on activities, I am not able to comment any further; however, as far as I can see, these tools are appropriate and interesting means to develop phonemic awareness among first graders while they also engage in creativity in that they design a comic through various uses of the technology.

However, this possible instructional activity still has its limitations. Because of the age group, students should be monitored how they use their device to use these applications. Formative assessment by the teacher and immediate intervention skills are extremely important. The second activity I am going to review comes from the British Council and it is specifically designed for online classes. The topic here is creativity and innovation. It also comes with a PowerPoint presentation file which contains the necessary material to be used during the lesson. While I found the lesson plan very detailed and elaborated in the sense that it starts by giving basic technology etiquette tips and contingency plans for online teaching, I feel that it lacks the use of technology integrated tools despite what the name of the topic might suggest. The aims of the lesson is to encourage students to engage in creative thinking by expanding their vocabulary, and provide supplementary instruction for their reading and speaking skills in this topic. It is intended for teenage students with B2 knowledge of English. Only material to be used here is a PowerPoint presentation file so as to students can follow the lesson. There is a 2-5 minute-long warmer at the beginning of the lesson followed by the lead-in. For the warm-up, students are instructed to write the first word that comes to mind when they hear "creativity and innovation" using the chat section or alternatively holding up a piece of paper to their webcam. It found this activity counterintuitive because it limits students' fluency and flexibility. I would suggest that students should brainstorm ideas using NearPod as opposed to Microsoft Office as the main presentation tool as it has built-in features such as the collaboration pinboard. For the lead-in, students are asked to look at some list of activities and decide which of them involves creativity using breakout rooms or giving feedback as a whole group. The next parts of the lesson include the practice of reading and speaking skills on this topic. A possible limitation of this lesson plan, as I said just before, is that it underutilizes the vast opportunities of educational technology to support the first ISTE standard. In such cases, I suggest that a specialist on computer assisted learning should consult content teachers and offer workshops in order to make all lessons available for digital native students.

References
======
https://www.teachingenglish.org.uk/article/multicultural-uk

http://edtech.canyonsdistrict.org/iste-standards---1st-grade-ela.html