---
title: 'Digital Natives'
date: 2020-11-15
permalink: /posts/2020/09/post-4
tags:
  - digital natives
  - instruction
  - CALL
---

Digital Natives
======
In this reflection I am going to share what my initial expectations were and how they were met learning about digital natives and creating an animation video using Vyond. To be honest, although I consider myself a pre-service teacher somewhat well-equipped with necessary technological knowledge in general and a robust supporter of technological integration, the terms "digital natives" and "digital immigrants" coined by Prensky (2001, 2004) were still very new to me. When I first did my readings on what meaningful learning is and how we can make it happen in our classroom (Howland, 2013), I got a sense of what I am going to learn in this course and came to a sudden realization that I knew very little about computer education and instructional technology. I found these two terms very intuitive and incredibly descriptive concerning the conditions our current generation -to which I truly believe to be connected despite the fact that I was born prior to the year 2001- faces in the classroom.

When I first learned that I was supposed to reflect this dichotomy between digital immigrants and natives in an educational context, I immediately thought of what I have gone through the last semester. COVID-19 halted everyday life and hit our education really hard in the middle of the semester. As it was an emergency model of online learning, I expected very little of what was to come. Indeed, some of our professors had great difficulty in using technology to make learning available each one of us, and they found it challenging adapting to teaching on a virtual platform. Nothing but these past few months has made me contemplate about the abyss between two very different generations in terms of technological knowledge. This is why I decided to narrate few of the challenges some of our professors had during online teaching to communicate the message that the needs of a digital native or that of even some digital immigrants should be and in fact are very different and unique than what previous generations may think. Things are now not like what it had been few decades ago. The information technology demands teachers or academics who pass down accumulative knowledge to their learners to equip themselves with necessary technological formation to speak a whole new language, one that is common between the two groups.

On this ground, I really enjoyed making the animation from the perspective of a digital native. The very basic message my work tries to convey is that we do need a change. We want the empathy and zeal necessary to adjust to the contemporary ways of teaching on the part of our instructors. The animation begins by showing what might the difficulties be like when a digital immigrant -or perhaps "settler" is a better terminology here- tries to teach online and what may go so wrong that traditional ways of teaching no longer work in front of a computer screen, thus making meaningful learning by students almost impossible. This has been the exploration part of my scenario. Of course, then I needed a rising action and a climax to keep the beholders' attention alive. I find it really important to make my work funny or intriguing even if its sole purpose is instructional. If the learners do not direct their attention at it, they will not be learning anything.

In this regard, the climax was the moment of the exam -based on my real-life experiences although I won't specify which one! The teacher there asked his students to do a 92-question exam in only 22 minutes to avoid cheating. However, students got an error message and were unable to solve it in time. I tried to convey the absurdity of this situation in this part of the animation. To propose a solution on how to teach digital natives in this era, I decided that our main unnamed character here fall asleep during the exam and dream about a utopian world -a little cheesy, I know, though I had very little time to write the scenario- In his dream, he was teaching teachers who were digital settlers themselves and listing all the characteristics of digital natives. In a way, I used this part to give the necessary information to my audience. Of course, I needed a resolution to wrap up the animation and finish it with a bang! After an imaginary graduation ceremony, our main character wakes up from his dream to find that the time for the exam has ended. The credits were just me making it a little more fun! Although it can be considered an unhappy ending, I believe that this way the effect is much more dramatized and stronger. The viewers watching this animation can relate to these experiences and perhaps start a change in education. I REALLY but REALLY enjoyed using Vyond, and all the sound effects, multiple scenes, and close-up shots. It requires creativity to come up with a Zoom-like screen, though. Overall, I believe it is worth the time I have spent making this animation. I hope you like it as well! See you in the next post, dear reader -probably Mutlu and Beste hocam. I wish you all the good luck with reading all these reflections and assignments.

