---
title: 'Evaluation of Activities Addressing ISTE Standards'
date: 2020-08-25
permalink: /posts/2020/08/post-2
tags:
  - ISTE Standards
  - instruction
  - CALL
---

Evaluation of Activities Addressing ISTE Standards
======
The standards put forward by the International Society for Technology in Education is concerned with the technological integration in the curriculum. Their prescriptions are in line with the current models of learning which aim to bring digital productivity in the classroom, creating an amalgam of pedagogical, content and technological knowledge to be employed by the teacher. These standards are crucial for establishing a project-based blended learning environment and this is why I would like to discuss here how Teaching of English as a Second Language (TESL) can both be implemented in an online medium and result in meaningful learning. To achieve this goal, not only will this evaluation address activities designed by professional teachers of English that maintain ISTE standards, but also my own lesson plan that I prepared for one of my courses. I intended to deliver a lesson on developing listening skills on Zoom and utilized a wide range of activities complying with few of these standards of technological integration. In the first section of my evaluation I am going to review what activities are out there in the teaching market and then return to what I tried to do in my classes in terms of meeting ISTE standards.

The first standard, creativity and innovation, requires students to use various software or technological tools to create original, authentic, and constructive work with an emphasis on the aspect of critical thinking. Erin McNamara (2015), a teacher of language arts for pre-kindergarten children, discusses the use of app smashing in her blog post about her lessons. That is, her students create content online in one application and build on their work by using a number of other apps. In her lesson plan, students who had previously been learning how to narrative "The Hungry Caterpillar," a famous children's storybook by Eric Carle (2016) are now instructed to create original work through the use of three different apps in the classroom: First, they get creative and draw the events with the app "Art Set," and then transfer the illustrations to "Book Creator" to sequence them to maintain a well-organized story. The objectives here is to get students experiment with writing texts or captions to the images they have drawn, record their voices to retell what is going on in the narrative, and sequence the events appropriately. The discourse competence for the learners will be that they are going to know how to introduce a character, set the setting, and use rhetorical devices to sequence events. Finally, learners submit and showcase their work in another external app called "Showbie" for teacher assessment where they can also give valuable feedback to their peers. I particularly chose this lesson because I can see how Mrs. McNamara utilizes the first and the second standard -the one that promotes communication and collaboration among students- for ISTE. Throughout the lesson there is an ongoing interaction and peer discussion in the classroom as students also contribute to the learning of others in addition to individual project work. At the end of the lesson, learners have a chance to post feedback on peers' videos and publish original work together. Communication, collaboration, and a constant conversation among learners are one of the few key components of meaningful learning. Constructive criticism from peers will enhance student performance and boost subsequent attempts at learning or creating. In this lesson, students also had a chance to apply their prior knowledge -as in the previous weeks they had been working on that story- to generate a brand-new product as a direct result of critical thinking and creativity. I assume one drawback of such a lesson could be that it does not encompass intercultural appreciation and an awareness for global communication among peers who come from different social and geographic backgrounds. To enrich the content, the storybook to be chosen for content could be designed by the teacher in such a way that comprises the multicultural understanding supported by ISTE instead of choosing a pre-existing one.

On the other hand, the lesson can be designed specifically to address the fifth ISTE standard: digital citizenship. One such example comes from a classroom teacher, Jaime (2016), who posts the details of his lesson plan entitled "What's My Digital Footprint?". Here, the teacher has the objective of teaching which applications are safe for learners and others that one interacts online. One particular activity that I really liked in this lesson plan was that after playing a game of Kahoot for schemata activation where they matched apps with logos, students watched a video concerning digital footprints. Then, students interactively brainstorm about different apps and create 5 questions on Google Forms and post it on Google Classroom to ask their peers. Finally, learners are required to create a graph showing the class preference to those questions using Google Sheets and present what they have found to the rest of the class as a group. Although this lesson centers on how to become a good digital citizen, I sense that there are many layers that comply with the ISTE standards here: Most importantly, students collaborative extensively with each other at each step, engage in critical thinking, and conduct mini research by gathering, evaluating and using information obtained from their peers. There is also a considerable emphasis on using different technological tools inside the Google ecosystem. As a result, I think that Jaime has done a great job in terms of addressing almost all the standards out there.

To conclude this post on ISTE standards, I would like to make a few remarks very briefly on how I used a worksheet website Wizer.me in one of my Zoom lesson plans[1] for developing listening skills among preparatory high school students in English in order to integrate the use of digital media and render it a multilayered means of collaboration. I divided my students into four groups of five in breakout rooms and instructed them to work on an online worksheet by giving them a link to it. Students there completed the worksheet together by communicating in the target language with each other and help each other answer the questions. In addition to within group discussions, there was a chat section at the end of the worksheet where students could simultaneously interact and post live questions to other groups. In a way, they had both the chance of spoken and written interaction among each other, which is very crucial for language learning. Provided that more and more teachers utilize such activities in compliance with these standards, more chances of meaningful learning will be there for each and every student. I hope we make it happen!

References
======
Carle, E. (2016). The Very Hungry Caterpillar. Philomel Books.

Interactive Worksheets | Wizer.me. (2015). Retrieved August 11, 2020, from https://www.wizer.me/

Jaime, H. (2016, July 18). What's My Digital Footprint? - Teacher-Created Lesson Plan. Common Sense Education. https://www.commonsense.org/education/lesson-plans/whats-my-digital-footprint

McNamara, E. (2015, December 2). How to get your students to plan the Book Creator lesson. Book Creator App. https://bookcreator.com/2015/12/how-to-get-students-plan-book-creator-lesson/